# jackdaw
So far, this project has just been a sandbox to rough in some ideas. The loop in
main.py waits for an input audio (a person querying the language model), and 
then when one is supplied, it is sent to OpenAI's whisper model to generate a 
transcription and the input audio is deleted. 

The transcription is saved as a text file and is soon discovered by the loop, 
which then sends the transcription to a language model to generate a response. 

The response is then received and saved to a new input text file as the 
transcription file is deleted. 

The new text file, representing the language model's response, is then 
discovered and submitted to MaryTTS, running on another host. 

The audio file generated by MaryTTS is then sent back to the original server but 
is not yet suitable for playback. At this point, the sox program is invoked from 
the command line to convert the audio to stereo, 32-bit, 2-channel WAV format, 
and the original audio is deleted, along with the language model's text 
response. 

The final audio output, representing the language model's voice response to the 
original query, is then played on the JACK bus with a JACK client that is 
instantiated by the loop in main.py. When the playback is finished, the JACK 
client melts away and the audio file is deleted. The loop then waits for the 
next query.

### Requirements
The JACK server must be running on the host machine. TortoiseTTS would of course 
be the preferred solution for the output audio, but my older machines struggle 
to run it and my Wintendo machine can run it, but I'm not interested in the 
Windows ecosystem outside of gaming. MaryTTS sits in that weird place that is 
entirely unpleasant, but definitely does not sound like a human. OpenAI's 
Whisper does such a great job of transcribing punctuation that MaryTTS is really
given it's best chance to shine. I don't know whether anyone would want to hear 
an audiobook in that voice, but it suits as a voice for the house computer 
everywhere all at once on the JACK bus, running on connected linux pcs.